---
title: February 27, 2017
date: 2017-08-07 19:05:00 Z
position: 20
---

I’m sitting in this Bronx apartment that's been in my mom's family for years. It's the day after the Oscars, the day before a family funeral, and I'm listening to stories and thinking about storytelling.
Getting to hear stories about coming to NYC when I was five and getting to know my family all over again, I realize that 1) everyone still sees me as the baby, 2) that I apparently look more like my dad every single day, and 3) that I'm from a long line of storytellers.
My great uncle never stops talking. And I love it.
In the few hours I've been here this evening, he's told me about the night he touched down in Vietnam and the horrors he still dreams about. The women and children he saw and that still haunt him. The men he served with who never recovered. The way he still volunteers at the VA to help some of the smartest people he's ever known, who fought for their country, and have now been abandoned to homelessness where they still struggle with what they saw...and did...for...
He's told me about playing baseball, the negro leagues, and his chance to go pro. Or how he ended up in that war that "was a war for nothing but things America wanted to make money on...like all wars” because he went to the military instead of going pro because...well, it sounded a lot like everything Denzel said in Fences. Everything August Wilson wrote about. Everything my great uncle lived. His last reminder for me: run from the military and run towards education. Makes me understand why my parents never wanted me to follow my dream to join the military without first getting those degrees. Makes me understand that all of us hear all the time about how we have to be twice as smart and work twice as hard--we didn't just hear it for the first time on an episode of Scandal.
Next, I heard about he and my grandmother and my mom and her sisters (one we just lost, and the reason I'm here) growing up in the segregated South. My mom's whole family on both sides were born in Charleston, South Carolina. They never talk much about it. The pain is still there. We talk around it. But tonight, my great uncle described seeing my mom and her sisters and their mom and his mom love Myrtle Beach. Except, he only ever went to Atlantic Beach because Myrtle was for whites only. He told me about how "the water and the sand were all the same, except the fence down the middle" letting them know which side they couldn't contaminate. More fences. He's never been there when it's been integrated. My mom's never taken us there. She thinks of it fondly, she says. But she also says she won't go back.
I heard more stories. Some I can't remember. I was too busy looking at the picture of Harriet Tubman hanging on the wall next to the African masks, the picture of Brother Malcolm looking out of his window with a gun and the same quote as the Malcolm poster in my office: By Any Means Necessary. I see pictures of Africa, of kings and queens, of other civil rights leaders, and they all look like...me. Some with faces, some without, but all with my black skin.
Miles away from my grandmother's Nebraskan home, her brother's home reminds me that I was raised in homes where I saw myself celebrated and reflected. Where I heard stories. Stories about our pain. Our struggle. Our joy. Our pride. Our intelligence. Our perseverance. Our people. And the way that they could never beat us--even when they beat us.
This all matters the day after the Oscars, because I'm still so relieved that Viola, Mahershala, and Moonlight won. I'm still so deflated that Denzel didn't. I'm still wondering if what Adele did was enough and why Beyonce and Denzel have to be gracious when they are indeed better and everyone, even the people beating them knows it. I'm still wondering why Donald Glover name dropping Migos mattered so much to me. Why seeing Laverne Cox or Janet Mock on TV makes me proud. Why I'm not totally surprised knowing that my great uncle and I are generations apart, but feel equally moved and impacted by seeing 13th. Why I Am Not Your Negro and the words of James Baldwin mean the world to me, but my great uncle can't watch it because it reminds him too much of the hard times he wants to forget.
As I sit here, mourning my aunt (another epic storyteller) and thinking about my great uncle's stories, I can't stop drifting away to a lifetime of stories I've heard. When he one day leaves us and goes home to join my aunt, who will keep telling my family's stories? Who will keep celebrating our blackness? Who will fight through the struggles and the pain of racism, segregation, slavery, mass incarceration, death, and all of it?
That's why Viola, Denzel, Bey, Donald, Kerry, Mahershala, Shonda, Laverne, Barry, Ava, Tarell, and everyone with names Jimmy Kimmel can't pronounce seem so important to me today and every single day.
Jimmy said it's just an award show. That's true. But sometimes, for those of us who never see our stories told. For those of us who rarely see ourselves reflected outside of stereotypical caricatures meant to scare you or make you laugh at us. For those of us who know our siblings, parents, great uncles, aunties, and grandparents have stories that are too painfully buried to share. For us, the stories matter. The reflections matter.
I'm only here for a short time. But I want to hear more stories. Maybe one day I'll even be as good a storyteller as my great uncle.
