---
title: January 22, 2017
date: 2017-08-07 19:04:00 Z
position: 18
---

I posted over 100 pics of signs yesterday and I had a few people reach out about a couple of them. One sign I shared from Rudy Espinoza, via Mark Lopez, about if folks would be present for the next BLM march/event/rally and one sign about not forgetting that white women voted for Trump. Folks (mainly white ones) just wanted to remind me that the march was beautiful, that it brought people together, especially some first timers. I was reminded that if people are coming out for the first time, making them feel bad or questioning if it was enough wouldn't help them come out again. I get that. The march was beautiful. I'm glad I went.
But I almost didn't go. I was trying to explain to some folks why I had no interest in being there at first. I just really struggled to put it into words. Like if you don't understand the whiteness that was initially centered in the march, I don't know what to tell you. Then my girl Jay-Marie Hill said it perfectly when she wrote: "It's really honestly very easy not to March when your everyday existence is essentially one big March for your right to be seen as a non-dude but still a person." Yes.
Not just seen as a non-dude, but seen. Like point blank. Period. But look, I rose to the occasion. I marched. And again, I'm so happy I did it. It felt amazing. I was on a high looking at pictures going home. But people. Especially you men who were marching. Especially you white men who were marching. And especially you white women who were marching. What are you doing today? What are you doing tomorrow? What are you doing to move beyond the intersection of white centered feminism? What are you willing to risk to create change? There were no arrests yesterday in LA. It felt safe. It felt like love. Police were wearing pink hats and taking pictures. But are you going to be at a march where you don't feel safe? Where there are arrests? What about when police don't wear pink hats and support something because they see the people the march is named after (women) as a group they should protect and serve, not fear and shoot. Then where will you be?
Let's not say I'm at every march. I won't even front. I'm more of a writer and a talker, I'm not always out in these streets. But I'm out in this movement. I'm out for people who aren't just my people. I'm working every single day paid and unpaid, fighting injustice. I do it when it's not comfortable. I do it when I'm the only. I do it when it's not safe. My existence is an unsafe act of resistance. My joy is an act of defiance. I both exist and have joy unapologetically despite the risks.
So don't blame me for agreeing with two pictures. Don't blame me for distracting from this new powerful movement. We've been in the movement. It's not new. Just new to you. I'm glad you're here. I'm not throwing shade. I'm just stating facts. So don't come at me with alternative facts. Don't be in your feelings. Just see the signs. Stop blaming women of color. Answer the question, we'll see you at the next one, right? And don't forgot who voted for who. Let's keep the energy going. But let's also keep it real.
